198 srrcrnucreir ossoararsu⁴

of Cardinals which was held on the affairs of Irelaud. Even before
the receipt of your favour, I had learned from other sources how stre·
nuously you laboured to gather everything that was importent from the
many letters which wrere sent hence, or which were there presented
to you. May God reward the constant affection with which you
labour to establish some sort of a settled form of spiritual govern-
ment amongst us. I will communicate your letter to the Bishop of
Waterford and Ι will myself be obedient to the instructions which it
conveys. As, however, the Deorees of the S. Gongregation, to which
it refers, have not as yet come to hand, I will, with my Episcopal
’ colleagues, defer for the present any remarks concerning them.

For the present Ι will only say, and this with all due reference,
that it will be a very odious matter to abolish at once all the now
existing Vicars Apostolic, for they have been a long tirne in possession
of their posts, and have laboured within their own sphera with no less
profit than the Bishops themselves. That design could more easily
he carried out by degrees according as these places become vacant
either by promotion or by death.

As regards the present state of our Ecclesiastical affairs here, we
enjoy, thanks to (tou, great peace and concord in all this Province,
except the Oity of Dublin, and in the adjoining Province of Gashel:
each one minds his own business, and any trifling differences that
arise are easily arranged by the exercise of a little patience. The
Superiores the Jesuits and the Provincial of the Franciscans, who
are old and experienced men, shewed a great desire, in their risita- '
tion circuite, to be on good terms with the secular clergy, and a
readiness to chastise their young subjects should occasion so require.
Ι deem it my duty to bear this testimony to their prudent ueal, and
Iwould wish to add, that as arule,agedSupe1iors effect much more
good when invested with authority than young inexperienced men. I
make no mention of the other Religlous Orders, because there are none*
of them in my Diocese, with the exception of one or two Oistercians, ’

, who are excellent men.

Ι said that the Oity of Dublin is not entirely free from dissensions
among its Ecclesiastics. Such, indeed, is the case. ute old ani·
mosities still linger among a few, though less noise is now made than
formerly. The worst feature of the matter is, that they now bring ‚
their litigations before the Vicmoy, and make the most bitter ce·
cusatione against each other before him. I think that before long

 

