arrcrnncruu ossoruuusn. ”

W

VH.

¹ Donuuuurs nnnarrre ro Du. Mnemon Mne Grnnor, Ancunranor or

Orsum.

[The Archlrishop oi Cashel, Dr. Maurice ileo Gilihon was appointed in Oonsistorp of
,che ich June, inor, He uns one of those who lobourcd mosi suenuousiy to unite ilie
Irish Ohieftaine against Quaen Elizabeih. In 1569 he was appointed Represeniaiive oi'
‚the Southern Consederaies to the Gourt of Spain and the Vatican, and when aeioing oui
onihis inission in February, 1569, was escorted from (lasheito che Sea Goust with solemn
pomp hy James Fitzrnaurioe and ilie orno· leaders ol une Consederaies. He endeavoured
‘co return io lreiand in June, 1572, hu: landinginSooilundhe was recognised andihrown
into prison. He soon after effeeted his escape io Spain, aud died at Oporto in 1578,
The letter of Dr. Mne Gibbon to His Holiness in 1575, is preserved in che Vatican
Archires. The other papers hore been copied from the Simnnoas transcripte in the
Briusu ireseum, London (additional MSS, 267 056, A. Β, O.) ; bui when ihe original
texi is in Spanish, ue have subsiiiuied in iis slead a literal translation. The first· paper
has the following noie added in Spaniah, in Philip the Second's own hand, for the
instruction of his Prinne Minister: “I know noi the meaning of this letter or who it is
char sends ii-7 and I hare received no communication eboni it. u is the same stace-
meni which ane Nunnio gare the oilrer day. These letters aiil he considered in Oounoil,
hui noi the others which cume wiilr them which my confessor has, and whichi will
iorward before poet hour ; yon will return thern. and advise what onsuer should he

gneus]

ξ 1.-Suuaunrpresented io ilco Kiup of Spain hp the Arelrbislaop 'of
Caedici ia ilic roomo ofilio Bisleops arrd Nooiap os [roland.

Errosrorou uun Esrano uu nos Nneooros un Inurum aun sn nr
un naenia n su Sarrrnnn r r ua lineo. Oarouroa nn nn rnurn
on nos Ouiaros r nonnus on Aornum Isnn.

Singulari dei grania ei benediio hoium hoc Regnum ejusque incolas
aicmpore Gelesiini ejus nominis Papae primi, cujus insiinolu Divus
Patricius hujus Insulae horninibus fidem Chrisii predicandi nempe ab
anno incarnaiionic ejusdem Christi 443 cirea, eiusque inpresentiarum
hoio illo tempore 1127 annorum.in firma ei consianii fide sanciae
mainis nosirae miliianiis Ecclesiae Christi, inque nera obediencia ei
devotione Romanorum Pontificum sedisque Aposiolicae sauciorumque
ordinum ei consiiiuiionem ejusdem, absque ulla significatione cujusvis
generis solemniis, sinisirae doctrinae, erroris, inobedieniioe vei alier-
aiionis contra sanciam volunlatem ei Caiholicas consiiiuiiones semper
conservans. Er non obsianie quod jam quinque (decenniis) summa
cuin insianiia sepius provocari, molestiis offendi ei valde adfiioii fuerini

 

